README.md, before:

## bh: Boost Headers for R

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/bh.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/bh) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSL--1.0-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://www.boost.org/users/license.html)
[![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/BH)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH) 
[![Dependencies](https://tinyverse.netlify.com/badge/BH)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH) 
[![Downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/BH?color=brightgreen)](http://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/BH) 
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/eddelbuettel/bh)](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh)  
[![CRAN use](https://jangorecki.gitlab.io/rdeps/BH/CRAN_usage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH)
[![BioConductor use](https://jangorecki.gitlab.io/rdeps/BH/BioC_usage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH)

### Synopsis

This package provides [R](https://www.r-project.org) with access to
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) header files.  [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)
provides free peer-reviewed portable C++ source libraries.  A large part of
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) is provided as C++ template code which is
resolved entirely at compile-time without linking.  

This package aims to provide the most useful subset of
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) libraries for template use among CRAN
packages. By placing these libraries in this package, we offer a more
efficient distribution system for CRAN as replication of this code in the
sources of other packages is avoided.

It can be used via the `LinkingTo:` field in the `DESCRIPTION` field of an R
package --- and the R package infrastructure tools will then know how to set
include flags correctly on all architectures supported by R.

Note that this can be used solely by headers-only Boost libraries. This
covers most of Boost, but excludes some libraries which require linking for
parts or all of their functionality. 

### Coverage

As of release 1.72.0-3, the following Boost libraries are included:

> accumulators algorithm align any atomic bimap bind circular_buffer compute
> concept config container date_time detail dynamic_bitset exception
> flyweight foreach functional fusion geometry graph heap icl integer
> interprocess intrusive io iostreams iterator math move mp11 mpl
> multiprecision numeric pending phoenix polygon preprocessor propery_tree
> random range scope_exit smart_ptr sort spirit tuple type_traits typeof
> unordered utility uuid

### See Also

See the [BH](http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/bh.html) page for some more details.

The [mailing list](http://lists.r-forge.r-project.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/boostheaders-devel)
at [R-Forge](http://www.r-forge.r-project.org) is a good place for questions,
comments and general discussion. The [issue tracker](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/issues)
can be used for bugs.

### Updating

We aim to maintain this package in a somewhat conservative fashion and do not always
immediately jump the newest Boost releases.  Rather, we (used to) start from the
[Debian sources for Boost](https://packages.debian.org/sid/libboost-all-dev)
to ensure that we work with a version that is at the same time current yet
mature.  But on occassion, and as needed, and more recently, we will also go
directly to Boost releases. 

In general, we plan to keep the package up-to-date with [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)
upstream, but will not necessarily follow each and every new release as we
also value the merits of relative release stability. 

If needed, the script `local/script/CreateBoost.sh` can be used to update a forked
version to a newer version of [Boost](http://www.boost.org/).

### But what about the size?

That used to be a concern, and we wrote:

> The repo has a large footprint. We know. We erroneously thought that committing 
> the Boost tarballs would be a good idea. It wasn't. First attempts at pruning 
> the history [using bfg](https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/) were not that
> successful.  If someone has a script doing this well we would take another
> look.
> 
> Otherwise we recommend to just start from
> [CreateBoost.sh](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/blob/master/local/scripts/CreateBoost.sh). 

and lo and behold, we got help via
[this script](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/blob/master/local/scripts/git-remove.sh) as
[discussed here](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/issues/34).  The old tarballs are now removed;
six commits were filtered and the repo has a much saner nice so it can be forked more easily.

### Authors

Dirk Eddelbuettel, Jay Emerson and Michael Kane

## License

This package is provided under the same license as Boost itself, the BSL-1.0

Commit message:

minor badge realigment, added example

README.md, after:

## bh: Boost Headers for R

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/bh.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/bh) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSL--1.0-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://www.boost.org/users/license.html)
[![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/BH)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH) 
[![Dependencies](https://tinyverse.netlify.com/badge/BH)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH) 
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/eddelbuettel/bh)](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh)  
[![Downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/BH?color=brightgreen)](http://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/BH) 
[![CRAN use](https://jangorecki.gitlab.io/rdeps/BH/CRAN_usage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH)
[![BioConductor use](https://jangorecki.gitlab.io/rdeps/BH/BioC_usage.svg?sanitize=true)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=BH)

### Synopsis

This package provides [R](https://www.r-project.org) with access to
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) header files.  [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)
provides free peer-reviewed portable C++ source libraries.  A large part of
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) is provided as C++ template code which is
resolved entirely at compile-time without linking.  

This package aims to provide the most useful subset of
[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) libraries for template use among CRAN
packages. By placing these libraries in this package, we offer a more
efficient distribution system for CRAN as replication of this code in the
sources of other packages is avoided.

It can be used via the `LinkingTo:` field in the `DESCRIPTION` field of an R
package --- and the R package infrastructure tools will then know how to set
include flags correctly on all architectures supported by R.

Note that this can be used solely by headers-only Boost libraries. This
covers most of Boost, but excludes some libraries which require linking for
parts or all of their functionality. 

### Coverage

As of release 1.72.0-3, the following Boost libraries are included:

> accumulators algorithm align any atomic bimap bind circular_buffer compute
> concept config container date_time detail dynamic_bitset exception
> flyweight foreach functional fusion geometry graph heap icl integer
> interprocess intrusive io iostreams iterator math move mp11 mpl
> multiprecision numeric pending phoenix polygon preprocessor propery_tree
> random range scope_exit smart_ptr sort spirit tuple type_traits typeof
> unordered utility uuid

### Example

The [Rcpp Gallery](https://gallery.rcpp.org) contains [several
examples](https://gallery.rcpp.org/tags/boost/) under its `boost` tag including the introductory
[first](https://gallery.rcpp.org/articles/a-first-boost-example/) and
[second](https://gallery.rcpp.org/articles/a-second-boost-example/).  From the
[first](https://gallery.rcpp.org/articles/a-first-boost-example/), a simple example to compute the
greatest common demoninator of two integers follows:

```c++
// [[Rcpp::depends(BH)]]

#include <Rcpp.h>
#include <boost/math/common_factor.hpp>

// [[Rcpp::export]]
int computeGCD(int a, int b) {
    return boost::math::gcd(a, b);
}
```

Saving it as `boostExample.cpp` and simple sourcing this `Rcpp::sourceCpp("boostExample.cpp")`
produces the function `computeGCD()`.  See the [Rcpp Gallery](https://gallery.rcpp.org) for more
examples. 


### See Also

The [mailing list](http://lists.r-forge.r-project.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/boostheaders-devel)
at [R-Forge](http://www.r-forge.r-project.org) is a good place for questions,
comments and general discussion. The [issue tracker](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/issues)
can be used for bugs.

### Updating

We aim to maintain this package in a somewhat conservative fashion and do not always
immediately jump the newest Boost releases.  Rather, we (used to) start from the
[Debian sources for Boost](https://packages.debian.org/sid/libboost-all-dev)
to ensure that we work with a version that is at the same time current yet
mature.  But on occassion, and as needed, and more recently, we will also go
directly to Boost releases. 

In general, we plan to keep the package up-to-date with [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)
upstream, but will not necessarily follow each and every new release as we
also value the merits of relative release stability. 

If needed, the script `local/script/CreateBoost.sh` can be used to update a forked
version to a newer version of [Boost](http://www.boost.org/).

### But what about the size?

That used to be a concern, and we wrote:

> The repo has a large footprint. We know. We erroneously thought that committing 
> the Boost tarballs would be a good idea. It wasn't. First attempts at pruning 
> the history [using bfg](https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/) were not that
> successful.  If someone has a script doing this well we would take another
> look.
> 
> Otherwise we recommend to just start from
> [CreateBoost.sh](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/blob/master/local/scripts/CreateBoost.sh). 

and lo and behold, we got help via
[this script](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/blob/master/local/scripts/git-remove.sh) as
[discussed here](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/bh/issues/34).  The old tarballs are now removed;
six commits were filtered and the repo has a much saner nice so it can be forked more easily.

### Authors

Dirk Eddelbuettel, Jay Emerson and Michael Kane

## License

This package is provided under the same license as Boost itself, the BSL-1.0
